AWS Lambda
-----------
AWS Lambda is server-less technology that is offered by aws cloudplatform. It is used for running burstable-loads of short running programs at a span of nanoseconds/microseconds of time for performing an operation.

When to use AWS Lambda?
There are programs invoked/triggered based on action/event, that takes the input performs the operation and produces the output. The lifespan of these programs would be very short-interval of time. If these programs as to be executed on cloudplatform, the aws / devops engineers has to
1. provision the infrastructure
2. install & configure necessary platform software packages and libraries required for running the program
3. manage scalability aspects in handling the huge workload
4. ensure it is always highly-available

if these programs are executed on dedicated infrastructure, where it might execute only short-interval of time upon receiving an event or action, then we endup in wasting the system resources like cpu/memory just for the sake for keeping the program alive and would result in huge amount of cost in running the program. 
    
Instead of we taking care of running the program on a dedicated Infrastructure we can make use of AWS Lamdba service that takes care of running program without dedicated infrastructure (server-less)
    
How to use the aws lamdba?
1. The developer has to build the software program based on aws lamdba api and these programs has to be developed based on the supported lambda programming platforms and deliver them to the aws cloud engineer.
    
2. The aws cloud engineer is responsible for configuring these programs as aws lambda function with code module along with invocation points/strategy like when does the program should be executed.
    
For eg.. 
Whenever a File has been uploaded into s3 storage bucket, we want to execute a Lambda function that will reads the file from the s3 bucket and perform operation on its contents.

advantages:
1. no dedicated infrastructure to execute the program, which saves huge amount of cost
2. no Infrastructure provisioning or software configuration setup required in running the application that saves lot of time
3. no need to manage the scalability and availability
4. no need to prior estimate of how much ram/cpu need to be allocated in running the program, Lamdba takes care of determining and allocates the resources while running the program by gathering the historical execution of the program.
    
Route53
Monitoring Tools

































